Department of Urban Public Heath, Epidemiology and Biostatistics Track, Hunter College 
This is a post-semester survey of your preferences for attending class in-person, online during class, or 
online after class is over, and the factors relating your preference.
Hunter College (CUNY) Human Research Protection Program (HRPP) Office Approved From: June 
10th, 2014 To: June 9th, 2017. Protocol #590445-1.

CONSENT TO PARTICPATE IN A RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Title:  Engagement of introductory biostatistics students in a novel hybrid format course

Principal Investigator:  Dr. Levi Waldron 
			          Assistant Professor
			          CUNY School of Public Health at Hunter College
			          Silberman Building, 2180 Third Avenue, Room 538
 			          New York NY 1003 

Site where study is to be conducted: CUNY School of Public Health, Hunter College
________________________________________

Introduction/Purpose: You are invited to participate in a research study. The study is conducted under the 
direction of Dr. Levi Waldron, Assistant Professor, CUNY School of Public Health at Hunter College. 
The purpose of this research study is to collect students' preference and reasons for their preference on 
alternative ways to attend classes. The results of this study may result in the school considering offering 
more courses in this hybrid format. We also are planning to publish a paper about students' preference 
and reasons for their preference about their choice to attend classes. The questionnaire identifies the 
students' preferences, reasons for those preferences, and demographic information that may help to 
translate the findings to classes with differing demographics. Although the frequency of preferences can 
be collected from simple observation, collecting reasons for those preferences, and demographics, will 
help other teachers to know whether their class is likely to achieve the same benefit from this format of 
hybrid class.  For example, if travel time turns out to be the only important factor affecting online/in-
person classes, then another class where all students are on-campus may not benefit as much from the 
online component.

Procedures:  This survey will be administered to PH750 and PH752 classes.  Each subject will participate 
in online survey. The time commitment of each participant is expected to be 20 minutes.

Possible Discomforts and Risks: There is a small risk that your participation in this study could result in 
breach of confidentiality. To minimize this risk, please do not self-identify yourself in free-form text 
boxes. Note that your IP Address or other personally identifiable information will not be available to the 
researchers. If you are bothered, troubled or upset as a result of this study you should contact Dr. Levi 
Waldron, 212-396-7747, levi.waldron@hunter.cuny.edu.

Benefits: Participating in the study may increase general knowledge of a novel format online hybrid 
course. There is a potential benefit to future students in that based on the survey results, the school might 
accommodate more hybrid course formats and offer more of such courses in the future.  Benefit to 
participants would be that the outcome of this survey may influence future offerings of this and other 
courses. The study will describe a novel format online hybrid course, which may benefit students in other 
programs and schools that choose to adopt it.  The attempt to explain why students have the preferences 
they report will help other teachers to understand whether the findings of this study are applicable to their 
students, and to decide whether it is in their students' interests to adopt a similar format. 

Alternatives: Your participation in this survey is voluntary and your alternative is to not participate in this 
study.

Voluntary Participation: Your participation in this anonymous survey is voluntary, and you may decide 
not to participate without prejudice, penalty, or loss of benefits to which you are otherwise entitled. 

Financial Considerations: None

Confidentiality: The data obtained from you will be collected via Google Forms.  Aggregate, anonymous 
data from Youtube Analytics will also be analyzed. The collected data will be accessible to Dr. Levi 
Waldron, Dr. Heidi Jones and Dr. Katarzyna Wyka, to IRB members and staff, and to researchers 
working on the project. The researchers will protect your confidentiality by using the SSL encryption 
future of Google to secure data. Google provides time and coarse location of Youtube viewers, but does 
not allow anyone to view IP addresses in any report, according to terms of their Privacy Agreement. 
Google Forms will be used to administer the survey, which maintains the same level of security. The PI, 
Dr. Levi Waldron and the co-Investigator, The class professor (Dr. Katarzyna Wyka or Dr. Heidi Jones) 
will review all survey responses online (data are collected directly on Google Docs).  Any names or other 
self-identifying information written down by students will be deleted before the data are downloaded 
locally. The collected data will be shared with other CUNY researchers. By participating in this study, 
you are providing consent for the researchers to share it with other CUNY researchers as well. After 
completion of the study, the data will be destroyed. The data won't be shared/stored for future use.  

Contact Questions/Persons: If you have any questions about the research now or in the future, you should 
contact the Principal Investigator, Dr. Levi Waldron, 212-396-7747, levi.waldron@hunter.cuny.edu.  If 
you have any questions concerning your rights as a participant in this study, you may contact Sarah Leon, 
HRPP coordinator, (212) 650-3053, bleon@hunter.cuny.edu.

Statement of Consent:


The purpose of this research project is collect students' preference and reasons for their preference on 
alternative ways to attend classes. This is a research project being conducted by Dr. Levi Waldron, Dr. 
Heidi Jones, and Dr. Katarzyna Wyka at the CUNY School of Public Health, Hunter College. You are 
invited to participate in this research project because you are enrolled in PH750 or PH752. Your 
participation in this research study is voluntary. You may choose not to participate. If you decide to 
participate in this research survey, you may withdraw at any time. If you decide not to participate in this 
study or if you withdraw from participating at any time, you will not be penalized.  The procedure 
involves filling an online survey that will take approximately 20 minutes. Your responses will be 
confidential and we do not collect identifying information such as your name, email address or IP address. 
The survey questions will be about preference and reasons for the preference, and some demographic 
information. We will do our best to keep your information confidential. To help protect your 
confidentiality, the surveys will not contain information that will personally identify you. The results of 
this study will be used for scholarly purposes only and may be shared with CUNY School of Public 
Health at Hunter College representatives. By participating in this study, you are providing consent for the 
researchers to share the data with other CUNY researchers as well. If you have any questions about the 
research study, please contact Dr. Levi Waldron. This research has been reviewed according to Hunter 
College IRB procedures for research involving human subjects. 

ELECTRONIC CONSENT: Please select your choice below.  Clicking on the "agree" button below 
indicates that:  • you have read the above information • you voluntarily agree to participate • you are at 
least 18 years of age.  If you do not wish to participate in the research study, please decline participation 
by clicking on the "disagree" button.  

"I have read the above description of this research and I understand it.  I have been informed of the risks 
and benefits involved, and all my questions have been answered to my satisfaction.  Furthermore, I have 
been assured that any future questions that I may have will also be answered by the principal investigator 
of the research study.  I voluntarily agree to participate in this study.   By signing this form I have not 
waived any of my legal rights to which I would otherwise be entitled.  I can return to this URL to obtain a 
copy of this statement."
*	Agree (participate in the survey)
*	Disagree (do not participate in the survey)

